Associative containers are those that provide direct access to its elements for storage and retrieval purposes. The elements are accessed via keys, also known as search keys. There are four ordered and four unordered associative containers in C++ such as multiset, set, multimap, map and unordered_multiset, unordered_set, unordered_multimap, and unordered_map, respectively. This article focuses on the ordered associative containers and explains them with examples.
Overview

The C++ Standard Library defines a host of different types of powerful containers. These containers are nothing but a template-based version of different storage data structures. There also are other implementations, such as template-based implementation of algorithms and iterators in the Standard Library. But, the containers are specifically for storing objects. To make the container generic, it has to have been templatized. This provides the container the capability to store objects of almost any data type.

According to the style of operation, C++ container classes can be loosely categorized as sequence containers, associative containers, and container adapters. The difference lies in how each of them adapts the data structure. For example, the sequence container adapts the linear data structure, the associative container stores a value a key-value pair, and container adapters are basically sequence containers with some constraints.

All containers are equipped with a list of member functions and most of them share a subset of similar prototype of these functions. This poses great advantage for the programmer to quickly discern the meaning implied by the function name and understand immediately how to use them even if the type of container changes. Here, we focus on the associative container and only ordered ones.
Types of Sequence Containers
https://xddddd.lt/dty45y asasdgf
In the C++ Standard Library, there are four ordered associative containers and four unordered associative containers. The four ordered associative containers are multiset, set, multimap, and map. The four unordered associative containers are unordered_multiset, unordered_set, unordered_multimap, and unordered_map, respectively.
http://memes.BRUUUH/dhfj45y45yu56trw45yGTY&t23jY*^&#TG@T~()
Note that the meanings implied by containers are same except one is strict about maintaining order among the objects stored whereas another one is not. This means that ordered ones store the keys in a sorted order, but the unordered ones have no such order. That's all the difference. Here, we'll take up only the ordered associative container and discuss it with examples.
Set Associative Container
www.eima.lt gae.wy
The set associative containers store values in such a way that the storage and retrieval of the container object is fast. The idea of "set" is derived from the mathematical set theory which does not allow duplicate elements. The elements stored in the set associative container must be unique. Any attempt to insert a duplicate element in the set is ignored according to the mathematical behavior of the set. It supports bidirectional iterators but does not support random access iterators. If we consider that the order of the objects in the set is not required, we can simply use its unordered version, called unordered_set. Otherwise, both ordered set and unordered_set are same in their functionality.
